### What does it mean for companies to share user data with other companies?
Companies share data with other companies for reasons such as working together to target users for marketing purposes, linking user information across sites (such as populating a user's profile on a social media site with images she posted on a photo-sharing site), selling user information to other sites, and providing user data for a third party to analyze for research purposes.  Users may choose to share data between companies, or sharing may occur without the user consenting or even realizing. 

### What does it mean for companies to share user data with the public?
Companies share user data with the public when they do not protect information that users have provided, or that the company has compiled through profiling, from being searchable or otherwise identifiable to the public.  Users may be aware that this information is publicly available, or they may believe that their information is protected.  For example, a social media site may allow users to make certain content visible only to viewers the user selects, but may also publish other content such as an avatar image or username available to anyone searching for this information on an internet browser or within the site. 

### What does it mean for companies to utilize user data to provide service?
Companies may need user data in order to perform their site's function. For example, a dating site may require users to input information about their gender, sexual preference, location, etc. for an algorithm to match potential mates.  A site that tracks users' fitness needs input such as weight, calories consumed, paces taken, etc. to generate results.  

### What does it mean for companies to utilize user data for marketing?
Companies may profit from their users' data by advertising their own products and services to users, and by selling data to other companies.  When a company targets a pool of users, whether their own or those with information purchased from another site, they frequently employ two methods: direct marketing and behavioral marketing. 

Direct marketing occurs when a company advertises to users based on information the user has actively or passively provided about his or her preferences and choices.  For example, a user who has purchased a certain brand of boots on a shopping website may find herself being offered the option to view more items from that brand next time she logs into the site.  She may also be emailed from another shopping website offering similar wares, which has bought her information from the original site.

Behavioral marketing occurs when a company monitors users "behind the scenes" to compile information about their patterns of online activity, creating a record of information about everything from users' interests to their location.  For example, a user may create a profile on a restaurant-rating site, which he uses to document times he went to different places, what he liked and disliked about certain foods, which areas of the city he frequents, etc.  The restaurant-rating company may interact with the record they have of this user in ways such selling the data to sites, combining that data with information from other sites, or using it to determine which advertisers to contract with to target him and other users.  The user may log into his email client and see advertisements for a new family-friendly restaurant in his neighborhood based on behavioral data aggregated from the restaurant-rating site and photo-sharing site where he has documented photos of his children.

### What does it mean for companies to utilize user data for profiling?
Companies may compile data about their user's preferences and patterns for reasons such as improving user experience, advertising to users by direct or behavioral marketing tactics, and tracking analytics to attract investors or determine information about the popularity of different features.  User profiles may contain explicit information entered by the user such as age and items purchased, or implicit information that the company has collected like the amount of times the user logs in or other users he follows.  For example, a forum discussion site may create profiles for users consisting of their usernames, email addresses, avatar picture, and log of comments they have made discussions they have had with other users. 

